Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to be learning about the difference between pawns such as this guy and characters
such as this guy.
And we're going to go ahead and set up a character blueprint and character C++ actor to look like this
so that we go.
Wraith mash.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
Okay so the first part of our greater project plan that we're going to want to start on is the player
movement.
That's number one that's what we basically fundamental of most games not just shooter games then they
would be going on to animation and shooting and health and me death and all those other things that
we want to get to.
But the first thing to tackle is the player movement to do this.
We're going to create a character class.
Now what's a character class.
Well first and foremost there's a distinction between a pawn and a character.
The pawn is anything that you can possess as a play.
We'll talk more about possession later but you'll have seen a little bit about it before already.
But the idea here is that the pawn is the thing that is controlled by the player character what's a
character.
Well the first thing to say is the character is a pawn.
It directly inherits from the pawn class.
So it can do everything that the pawn can do and more so the character is a specialization of a pawn.
It adds character like features.
Well that's not very informative Sam what kind of things are character like about a character.
Well for example movement moving around just like a normal person would do moving around on the floor
being able to jump be able to run all that sort of stuff that tends to be the domain of a character
rather than a pawn because pawns can fly around like spaceships for example they aren't people like
so that is what a character is like.
And it also adds things like nav mesh movement which we'll see more when we get to the A.I. section
of this section.
And that's going to help us move the character around avoid obstacles and stuff like that.
So how do we go ahead and create a character very much same as we would create any other C++ class we
get to add new new C++ class and you can see here amongst the options there is porn and there is character.
Now I'm going to go ahead and give you a challenge right off the bat to create the blueprint children
and the C++ for that matter.
So we're going to first of all follow along to create the C++.
This is not going to be part of a challenge.
We're going to create ourselves a pawn.
I'm just going to call my pawn four because we're not gonna be using the pawn.
We're going to want to see the difference between that and the character.
So we go ahead and create that class.
And once that goes ahead and finishes you will end up with a pawn class the sort of thing that you will
have seen before.
It's got begin play a tech set up play input component cetera.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to do the same procedure again add new C++ class this time we're
going to create a character go to next and sort of calling it something unimaginative like my character
I'm gonna call it the shooter character which is more descriptive about what kind of character we're
trying to create here and we can go ahead and create that class and when that's finished building you
can see that we've got ace pretty similar looking had a file in fact pretty much everything is identical
except for what it inherits from the character class instead of the Pawn it's very very similar.
Other than that.
So to see the differences we're going to have to look at the blueprint children of these things to see
what kind of components are there.
So that's going to be a challenge to follow along to create the C++ as I just did add a blueprint child
for each of those that my pawn and the shooter character then.
What differences can you see when you open up those two separate blueprints pulls a video and a half
ago.
KAYE Welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
If we go into the ED and I'm just going to navigate to the top of my content directory and then I'm
going to add some new blueprints.
So I'm going to right click Create a blueprint class and instead of inheriting from one of these I'm
going to select all classes and look for the my porn class which is a child of the porn as we can see
select that one and go and create an override of that I'm going to call it the BP underscore my porn
to use that convention which helps us differentiate between the C++ and the blueprint so against then
right click and create a another blueprint class.
This time I'm going to be looking for the shooter character and select that one.
And predictably I'm going to call that BP underscore shooter character.
It kind of helps us in terms of not having to be too imaginative about naming things you don't want
to be imaginative about naming those blueprint children.
You just want to be able to say it's going to be exactly the same name just with BP underscore on the
front.
So let's go ahead and open those two up and dock them to the main window so we can compare them nice
and easily not the shooter character docked to the main window and straightaway we can see some differences.
The pawn basically has nothing going on in the component view.
It has a default scene roots and nothing else.
We go over to the shooter character.
However you can see there's a few more things going on for a start.
We have got ourselves a capsule component here which is kind of implying already that it's expecting
a humanoid shape to fit inside that capsule the capsule is for doing rough physics and manipulation
or collision with the terrain and then obviously something that fits inside that very nicely as a humanoid
character.
Got an arrow component which just basically tells us which way is forward for this character.
And then we have a mesh which is an inherited it's inherited from the C++ in fact it's inherited from
two levels up because we haven't defined any measures here in the a shooter character.
They must have been defined up in the a character class instead.
So that mesh component is trickling all the way down here to this blueprint class.
And it doesn't have anything in that mesh just yet.
So we can go ahead and put a mesh in there.
So let's go ahead and try that go over to the details pane to the skeletal mesh and we want to basically
put in our Rafe character.
So I'm just going to select Rafe in here and there we go.
It has puts him in a little bit off the ground.
So what I want to do is go ahead and adjust his feet so they meet up with the bottom of the capsule
as best I can manage.
Looks like I pretty much got that right first time and then we want to also align him so that he is
facing towards that forward arrow so we can do a little bit of rotation magic 90 degrees that way and
we are golden I was hitting the arc key to get to the rotation which by the way or you could use these
little widgets at the top of top right or your viewport to get between your translation and rotation.
Another thing that's worth noting here in the component hierarchy apart from the fact got this mash
the arrow and the capsule component is we've got this character movement component.
This is what is entirely responsible for giving it character like movement being able to walk and run
et cetera.
You can see here in the details pain we've got a bunch of movement settings we've got the gravity scale
so you could make it look like we're playing on Mars or on the moon or on Jupiter whatever you want
to do you can change the graph the scale can be fun we've got default movement types for whether we
are on land whether we're on water or this kind of stuff walking jumping information network stuff this
automatically works well in multiplayer games it's got all that built in.
So basically lots of stuff already being done for us here.
So that's why we want to use a character over a pawn where we would have to write all of this movement
code from scratch for use the character it's already set up with this character and movement component
for us and that's far from being all of the things that the character provides for as it also provides
lots of niceties and nice functions that we can call in the base class to get our job done even more
easily we'll be seeing that in upcoming lectures.
So the final thing we might want to do is make sure this character is the pawn they get spawned in our
map.
So the way I'm gonna do this is going to the roots of our contents again and this is revision.
So many challenge for you if you want it where you could go ahead and create a clone of this map and
a blueprint game mode set from this map that will spawn at BP shooter character.
I do encourage you to attempt these mini challenges as well as the main big challenge.
I'm gonna move on though and give no challenge slide for that one.
So we've got the modular sci fi season one starter bundle Collette collection maps got Matt one here.
I'm actually gonna just go ahead and copy that in to the root of my project for now.
And we can reorganize things a little bit later as the route gets a little bit more stuff in it and
the organization structure becomes clearer.
I'm going to rename that map to sandbox.
I'm gonna set it as the project's default by going to project settings maps and modes and then changing
it from map 1 to sandbox for both the game and the editor then I'm gonna make a game mode so I'm going
to right click and create a blueprint class.
I'm going to create a game mode based blueprint.
Call it BP underscore shooter game mode and open up that I don't need any C++ in this base class so
I'm basically not deriving it from C++ but once we do need it we can always reap parents blueprints
to C++ classes of our own devising.
So what I'm going to do is go over to the details if that's not selected for you need to go to class.
Defaults here in the top bar and then you can go to classes section and find the should be something
like the default porn class like so and we're going to look for the BP shooter character on the blueprint
version because it's got the MASH set up and then we're gonna go back to our sandbox open up our sandbox
and change out its game mode.
Now the reason I created a sandbox is because I don't want to be editing the original map because I
might always want to go back to that one for reference if I've mucked up my sandbox so let's go to the
blueprints down in the top bar and select the game modes currently set to game mode base.
I'm going to select instead the BP underscore shooter game game mode shooter game mode rather and the
final piece of the puzzle is going to be to put in a player start somewhere so go to your place actors
tab over to the left if you haven't got it go to window and select to place actors to make it show up
and we want basic actors we want the player start act.
If you just go ahead and bring that in it gives us this little capsule with an forward arrow that shows
us where porn is going to spawn so we can go ahead and hit play.
It's not immediately obvious whether this has worked or not.
So what you've got to do is go to f eight to eject from your pawn to possess it.
If you turn around you can see that sure enough we have got our character here.
He just had a camera somewhere inside his groin unfortunately.
And so we are going to fix that later on.
But at the moment we were have got our mesh in place and we are going to be continuing from this to
fix up the animations get a third person character and so on and get it moving most importantly so we've
got the correct shooter character spawning at the moment.
It's not a third person camera we're gonna fix that later on but first of all we're going to get our
movement working.
So let's dive on to the next lecture.